

Goal. Show what this product is for. 
A. Knows about six handshakes 
B. Knows how I'm going to use it. 
Plan. 
- reminder
- intro. I made this map. I want to sync with you. 
- how the mind map is organized
- Data (important, additional). Thoughts, questions
- Analysing (important, additional). Thoughts
- Use cases (important, additional). Thoughts
- Conclusion. Probabalistic ID to tell it is a unique human. 
- Next post is on how to build this. 
- questions


# The perfect picture
Imaginig how the data is organized and analyzed.

_I'm developing a new identity proof system. It is based on six degrees of separation idea. The idea assumes that the whole world nows each other in just six handshakes. I want to put these connections on blockchain._ 

_It is a huge goal. To get there I decided to start a series of posts, showing my developement process. I wrote about my mission which is "move the world towards peace" (todo link). Wrote on six degrees of separation (todo link)._ 


# What is it for

I haven't still mentioned what my identity system is exactly for. The main reason for this is that I wasn't quite sure myself. It is while writing this post I gained enough conidence to tell it.

The main use case of 6handshakes is to __tell humans apart from bots and clones__. Bots are accounts generated by programs and clones are humans with multiple accounts. In other words the purpose of the system is to exclude sybil attacks or to make them impracticaly expensive.

This is a key difference from other identity systems. As we are not building an ientity storage, but rather a decentralized and unanimous alternative to state passport system.

A proof of human uniqueness may be needed by a voting system, captcha, airdrops, PoS-systems and other services where bots and clones are not desirable.

Posts on use cases and existing alternatives are about to come.

# Clap and support
Below is tiding up of my brainstorming. If you would like to contribute share your thought. Have a look at some open questions. If you would like to help more, please visit my advertising project. This is how I make my own funding. And you can benefit too.


# The ideal picture

In  order to understand what the system may be used for I tried to imagine an __ideal picture__. What the project might look like in the case of it's success? The whole world is in the system? All social connections are replicated. What usefull information can now be extracted? Who and how may benifit from it?

I came up with a mindmap with three main branches: Data, Analysing Data and Use cases. 

    There are still a lot of raw unstructured thoughts. Cuz this is brainstorming! I want to sync with you. And I hope you'll have something to say. Please say anything that comes to your mind. The crazier - the better. It would help me a lot! 


# Data. Important / additional. Thoughts / questions.

Data branch shows what pieces of data may be stored in the system.

## Useful data

I separated the useful data. The only pieces of data which will definitely be in the system are: Users (or Nodes) and Connections between them. 

If we have the whole world "copied" to the system, if all the nodes are unique human beings, if all the connections represent physical handshakes, then we have some realy valuable data already. 

But the world isn't perfect. Something must guarantee accuracy, punish malicious actors, give incetives to users to build the network and finally let the platform itself earn money (if needed).

All of it means more data.


## Data needed for accuracy, incentive and monetization

And here are some examples of additional data (the rest is in the Mind Map). 

### Users and connections attributes

Users and connections may have __weights__ (number of friends, stake) and __timing__ (when created, updated). Connections may have __directions__ (I know Vitalik Buterin, he doesn't know me).

Creating grous (clubs, organizations, interests) may require "fields" like reputation, status, type.

Providing unanymous identity to web apps (_"I guarantee this person has a real government ID and a credit card, but I won't tell you anything above this"_) requires storing user's credentials (nickname, ID, links to SN-profiles, biometry).

    Providing accuracy... How can we be sure the person is still alive?!


### Nodes / Actors / Entities

There probably be needed other entities except simple users to ensure network stability, acuracy, incetives, etc.

Making analogy to GPS sytem. What if we have a __beacon system__. A famous person like KEVIN BACON may become a beacon (as simple as addind an e). Investors, funds, charities, organizations all may become beacons. Then we can have a distance to each of the beacon. This will help privacy in the long run, by the way. 

    What are network nodes? May  a node be an organization? Or organization is just a cluster od nodes (users)? Do we need __notaries__ to input Governemnt IDs and other data? Or is it enough to show it a couple of your friends? Is there an __investor__ entity?


# Analysing data.

What the data above can tell.

## If you are an insider of the system 
You can tell the min number of handshakes between me and you. 

However this is a posible threat to privacy. A malicious actor may recruite acomplaiciese around the world. They can try to calculate thier own "distances" to a victim and try to deanonimize them.

A solution may be to use some mutual friends index or an index of distances to beacons. With this approach you could have a probability of a unique human in some integer scale (like percents 1-100). By reducing the accuracy of information we add privacy.  

## If you are an outsider you can analyse the whole data.
- Probability of a unique human
- Clusters, Probability of dealing with a member of a group    
- Person's reputation (stake)
- Account activity   
- Network activity. Growth rate or updates rate (ripples of updates)   

    Will connections data be available for anybody? Or do we need to hide this data in a centralized way or behind some ZkSNARKS? 


# Use cases.

What the "distance" between me and you and can tell. What physical handshakes guarantee.

# No sybils
As already mentioned in the beginning, this is the main value preposition of the network. 

# Decentralized id
This is an outcome of the previous. If one can tell humans apart from bots and clones it is trivial to assign IDs.

# Unanimous id
A service that tells "I guarantee this person has a real government ID and a credit card, but I won't tell you his name". 

    If we want an unanimous id system how will the data be accessible from the outside? There are zkSnarks, but I can't quite biuld it in my mind. If I add snarks will I centralize the system? What pieces of information should be encrypted? I'm not even sure what to ask. Please, give me a vector! 

# Other use cases and by-products of the above
CAPTCHA
dAppp auth
restore password through friends
advertising campains (airDrops, freestuff, basic attention token)

# Conclusion. 

A way to start solving this is to think of a probability of a human. And of course incentives. Incentive may be the answer both to accuracy and to building the system. I already have a thought-strom on "how to build it". Incentives will be the structuring agent for these thoughts.

    I can't help but admire this system of writing out own thoughts! It feels like everything comes into order by itself!

# Clap and support

Thank you for reading! I can see the stats! The bare fact you are here is very motivating. If you would like to help more, please visit my advertising project. This is how I make my own funding. And you can benefit too.