

Goal. Show what this product is for. 
A. Knows about six handshakes 
B. Knows how I'm going to use it. 
Plan. 
- reminder
- intro. I made this map. I want to sync with you. 
- how the mind map is organized
- Data (important, additional). Thoughts, questions
- Analysing (important, additional). Thoughts
- Use cases (important, additional). Thoughts
- Conclusion. Probabalistic ID to tell it is a unique human. 
- Next post is on how to build this. 
- questions

If you missed the previous posts. I'm developing an identity proof system. It is based on six degrees of separation idea. The idea assumes that the whole world knows each other in just six handshakes. I want to put these connections on blockchain. It is a huge goal. To get there I decided to start a series of posts, showing my thought process. Read about my mission which is "to move the world towards peace" and about  six degrees of separation.


# The perfect picture
Imaginig how the data is organized and analyzed.

_I'm developing a new identity proof system. It is based on six degrees of separation idea. The idea assumes that the whole world nows each other in just six handshakes. I want to put these connections on blockchain._ 

_It is a huge goal. To get there I decided to start a series of posts, showing my developement process. I wrote about my mission which is "move the world towards peace" (todo link). Wrote on six degrees of separation (todo link)._ 


# What is it for

The main use case of 6handshakes is to __tell humans apart from bots and clones__. Bots are accounts generated by programs and clones are humans with multiple accounts. In other words the purpose of the system is to exclude sybil attacks or to make them impracticaly expensive.

This is a key difference from other identity systems. As we are not building an ientity storage, but rather a decentralized and anonymous alternative to state passport system.

A proof of human uniqueness may be needed by a voting system, captcha, airdrops, PoS-systems and other services where bots and clones are not desirable. 

Posts on use cases and existing alternatives are about to come.

# Alternatives

The closest thing I found is Web of trust pgp / gpg. It allows creating unique ids by hashing your Government ID. But it doesn't incetivize it (or punishes). You are allowed to create a unique id, but not enforced to do so. The answer which this systems gives is "can I trust this id". I'm rather answering "Is it a unique human". 

Why you want a uniuqe human. 

# Bright ID
They are cool and big. They go to conferences. 

I quickly looked looked through the projects. This one is the closest to mine. That is why I abandoned reading it. I stumbled upon many titles which I'm thinkig of too (Like attaching UBI). I 

So I'm different. I don't know yet why. But I am. I need to continue my own thinking. So please don't mention Bright ID.

I will contact them as soon as I come to some point in my own research. 

There will be another post on alternatives. 

Bright ID is stakng on post-analysis of the network to find sybils. My vision is to to somehow eliminate sybils at the start. Plus some human made updates to the system. 

While writing this post I'm looking at their whitepaper. Many titles corresponds to titles in my drafts. So I'm not going to dive deeper. I don't want to kill mt thought process. I'm different. 

# Passport/ Proved parameters


# Benefits of ID
- uniqueness. the peson exists and the person is unique
- responsibility. you can be searched and punished - responsibility
- Certified source of truth. 
    + age
    + country
    + countries visited
    + gender
    + in russia. Number of children, where you live, nationality
    + ID number

# responsibility 
Addressed by reputation and 

# uniqueness
Never addressed. 

# Drawbacks of passport
- Cannot disclose a portion of info (age, but not ID number)
- Centralized. Controlled by state 
- Not universal (each country has its own) 
- Not every country has it
- Not digital
- Podverzhen to fraud (create a fake ID easily) - specially easy for a Government
- 



# Where

Meta universe 

# How I do it

I write post. It is like detective story. 


Or read imagine you read a detective story. In the end I'll tell you who killed the state ID. 


# Why unique

Do we really need uniquness. 




# Clap and support
Below is tiding up of my brainstorming. If you would like to contribute share your thought. Have a look at some open questions. If you would like to help more, please visit my advertising project. This is how I make my own funding. And you can benefit too.

# Clap and support
Thank you for reading! I can see the stats! The bare fact you are here is very motivating. If you would like to help more, please visit my advertising project. This is how I make my own funding. And you can benefit too.